Wardrop describes two methods of population data disaggregation: A top-down and bottom-up approach. In the top-down approach, large-scale data (e.g. a national census) are collected. Then, using factors such as presence of human structures, a density map is approximated. Top-down disaggregation, however, is dependent on good censuses. War-torn countries and those without the means of obtaining accurate censuses cannot be analyzed using a top-down approach.

Bottom-up disaggregation, on the other hand, starts with very small-scale data, and then attempts to create a generalized pattern based off of that. Micro-censuses are taken to generate a baseline, and then spatial analysis is performed to approximate the population of other areas outside of those analyzed. This approach, however, is a great deal less rigorous, and is dependent wholly on the accuracy of the algorithms used to analyze the data; it is suggested only as a complement to top-down data due to how inaccurate it can be in poorly-fitted models. 

The top-down method represents a way of using rigorously-obtained data for modeling microcosms of that data; bottom-up is used for scarcer data, and its approximations are far less accurate. I would like to attempt a visualization of this, and I would describe it so:
For top-down: Imagine that we have 50 people in a field. We know what the field looks like, and how many people are there, but not where exactly they are. Suppose that this field has very harsh sunlight, and people naturally try to avoid that. If the field were to have shady trees or cool water in it, more people would be there. From this information, we can predict that more people will be at the trees and water than in the open areas of the field. Just how many of the people will be there? Only the algorithms know.

For bottom-up: Imagine that we know there are 5 people at a tree, 7 people at a body of water, and 2 people in an arbitrary plot of open space within the field used in the previous example. From these little microcosms, we  can assume that other areas like them will have similar density. Thus, if the field has 4 trees, 2 bodies of water, and 12 arbitrary plots of land, we would estimate that there are 58 people in this field. 
